ebpf_updates: issue 3 (#97)
cilium/ebpf.io: src/posts/2021-01-20-ebpf-updates/index.md

  new feature, it feels interesting to report because it should enable wider
  automated testing on ARM architectures. Selftests are, of course, an
  essential part of the eBPF ecosystem.
  (Jean-Philippe Brucker,
  [link](https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/20210113163319.1516382-1-jean-philippe@linaro.org/t/#u))

## Did You Know?: eBPF Virtual Filesystem

eBPF objects, such as a program or a map, reside in kernel memory until they
are no longer needed. Internally, the kernel uses reference counters to keep
track of the number of “handles” pointing to such objects. When the number of
references comes down to zero, the program or the map is destroyed. The
references to a program would typically be a hook where the user has attached
the program (such as a tc filter or a kernel probe), or file descriptors to the
program that were returned from the kernel when loading the program with the
`bpf()` system call. Similarly, references to an eBPF map can be held by eBPF
programs using the map or by a user program that retrieved a file descriptor.

This means that if a process loaded an eBPF program but has not attached it,

> the program will be destroyed when the process exists and its file descriptors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the program will be destroyed when the process exits and its file descriptors
```

are closed. There are ways to share file descriptors between processes, but to
make it easier to reference eBPF objects between user applications, or simply
to make them persistent at a time when they have no reference in the kernel
(such as a detached program or an unused map), another mechanism has been
created: the eBPF virtual filesystem.

The eBPF virtual (or _pseudo_) filesystem, often called bpffs, is traditionally
mounted at `/sys/fs/bpf`, but any alternative mount point can work. It is
possible to pin objects to this virtual filesystem, which is rendered as file
paths. Calling the `bpf()` system call with its `BPF_OBJ_PIN` subcommand pins

> an object, using the `BPF_OBJ_GET` on a bpffs path retrieves a file descriptor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an object. Using the `BPF_OBJ_GET` subcommand on a bpffs path retrieves a file descriptor
```

to the pinned object. Removing a pinned path simply involves a call to

> `unlink()`, just like for regular paths. They are not persistent after reboot.

Reviewer: It's a bit hard to grasp what "They" refers to here. Maybe say "eBPF objects" explicitly?

```suggestion
`unlink()`, just like for regular paths. eBPF objects are not persistent after reboot.
```

Author: I was in fact thinking of the pinned paths :). Now clarified, thanks.

Reviewer: I see 😄  thanks for clarifying.

Note that the use of periods (`.`) in pinned paths is restricted. The glyph has
long been unused, but a recent feature introduced it to mark paths to specific

> eBPF iterators than can the system can preload, `maps.debug` and `progs.debug`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eBPF iterators that the system can preload, `maps.debug` and `progs.debug`
```

---
path: "/news/ebpf-updates-2021-01"
date: "2021-01-20T10:00:00.000Z"
title: "eBPF Updates #3: Atomics Operations, Socket Options Retrieval, Syscall Tracing Benchmarks, eBPF in the Supply Chain"
tags:
  - _
categories:
  - Update
---

{{preview}}

With the festive season, it would seem that eBPF blogging has cooled down a

> little. But the eBPF community is more active than ever, and we can be certain

Author: eBPF blogs in general. I'll replace with `the production of eBPF resources`. We're not late for publishing (yet) :)

> little. But the eBPF community is more active than ever, and we can be certain

Author: After chatting on Slack, I edited a bit further.

  numerous possible use cases: packet routing, filesystem access control,
  customization of TCP parameters, and more. This is a good read to help
  understand what is at stake with eBPF.

<!--2020-12-11-->
* [_Linux Networking - eBPF, XDP, DPDK, VPP - What does all that mean?_](https://media.ccc.de/v/vnog-4-linux-networking-ebpf-xdp-dpdk-vp),
  from Andree Toonk.  
  Definitely oriented towards networking, this video introduces several of the
  frameworks that have been used in the domain of fast networking over the last
  years. The presentation is organized as a “journey”, that the presenter
  experienced: From the quest for a fast traffic generator, that brought in
  DPDK, to VPP and ultimately to eBPF and XDP, where you get fast packet
  processing capabilities while keeping at hand all the features and goodness
  from the Linux kernel. Andree also covers this topic
  [on his blog](https://toonk.io/tag/networking/index.html).

<!--2020-12-19-->
* [_File Integrity Monitoring using eBPF_](https://www.devseccon.com/file-integrity-monitoring-using-ebpf-secadvent-day-19/),
  from Sylvain Baubeau.  
  After a brief introduction to eBPF, this post explains how it can improve

>   features such as _File Integrity Monitoring_ as implemented in the DataDog

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  features such as _File Integrity Monitoring_ as implemented in the Datadog
```

Author: The post I report, or the GitHub user name, say “DataDog” :shrug: But OK, let's stick to what their website says.

  Agent. Several challenges came up, such as portability across kernel
  versions, monitoring of all hard links pointing to a given file, or
  performance overhead. eBPF addresses most of them, and provides performance
  and over overall improvements to the feature.

<!--2021-01-19-->
* [_Introduction to eBPF_](https://oswalt.dev/2021/01/introduction-to-ebpf/),
  from Matt Oswalt.  

>   This is a high-level introduction—technical details are left out for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This high-level introduction—technical details are left out for
```

  follow-up posts—explains what eBPF is, how it augments the Linux operating
  system, and why people care about it. The technology permits fast updates of
  the kernel's behavior, without the need to wait for patches to go upstream,
  or without even the need to reboot a system. It brings flexibility, because
  you can compile your program on-the-fly, and include just the features you
  need. Every technologist, the post claims, should be aware of eBPF and the

>   changes it brings: It will soon be part of the “supply chain”. Just like the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  changes it brings. It will soon be part of the “supply chain”. Just like the
```

  first link of this section, read this post if you are getting started with
  eBPF and want to understand the stakes.

### Deep Dives

<!--2020-12-23-->
* [Cilium documentation on _The Kubernetes Networking Guide_](https://k8s.networkop.co.uk/cni/cilium/),
  from Michael Kashin.  
  This is not strictly a presentation, but rather an update of an existing
  resource. _The Kubernetes Networking Guide_ aims at providing “_an overview
  of various Kubernetes networking components, with a focus on exactly how they
  implement the required functionality_”. Cilium's overview is interesting in

>   which it explains how Cilium deploys and uses eBPF programs and maps, and how

Reviewer 2: Did you mean `it is interesting because/in that`?
```suggestion
  that it explains how Cilium deploys and uses eBPF programs and maps, and how
```

  to manipulate and inspect them. The overview also details how to track a
  packet at the different stages of its processing in the datapath. This is a
  recommended read if you want a glimpse of advanced networking with eBPF.

<!--2020-12-24-->
* [_How to Trace Linux System Calls in Production with Minimal Impact on Performance_](https://pingcap.com/blog/how-to-trace-linux-system-calls-in-production-with-minimal-impact-on-performance),
  from Wenbo Zhang.  
  The answer to the question in the title, as you can imagine, is eBPF. The
  post explains that strace is good to inspect system calls, but not usable in
  practice in production environments due to its overhead. Instead, the perf
  tool, relying on eBPF for some features, is much better suited. In

>   environments with containers, using cgroup v2, the eBPF-based tool traceloop

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  environments with containers using cgroup v2, the eBPF-based tool traceloop
```

  layers 3 and 4 with layer 7 parameters such as the HTTP method, bringing
  “_visibility and enforcement based on a service, pod, or container
  identity_”.

### Software Projects

* ipftrace2, a tool to track packets inside the Linux kernel,
  [got a new v0.1.0 release](https://github.com/YutaroHayakawa/ipftrace2/releases/tag/v0.1.0),
  bringing new features such as support for writing extension module with C
  thanks to CO-RE, thus improving programmability and portability.

### Software: Sandbox and Experiments

* [tc-skeleton](https://github.com/florianl/tc-skeleton) is a simple example
  project to demonstrate how to load eBPF programs with
  [go-tc](https://github.com/florianl/go-tc), a work in progress version of tc
  (the Linux tool for traffic control) written in Go.

* [lnetd-host-encap](https://github.com/cpmarvin/lnetd-ctl/tree/main/host-encap)
  is an experiment where an eBPF program encapsulate packets with MPLS headers.

## The Kernel Side

Below are some highlights for the first
[pull request for the bpf-next tree](https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/20210116012922.17823-1-daniel@iogearbox.net/t/#u)
for the 5.12 cycle:

> * Add atomic operations to eBPF. To that goal, extend the eBPF instruction set

Reviewer 2: `With that goal`/`To that end`, no?
```suggestion
* Add atomic operations to eBPF. To that end, extend the eBPF instruction set
```

Author: Was looking for that one, it wouldn't come back to my brain! :pray:

  with a new `BPF_ATOMIC` mode modifier for the operation codes. Atomics come
  along with support for the x86-64 eBPF JIT (support for other JITs is left to
  developers more familiar with their architectures). Here is a summary of the
  new instructions:
  * `atomic[64]_[fetch_]add`
  * `atomic[64]_[fetch_]and`
  * `atomic[64]_[fetch_]or`
  * `atomic[64]_xchg`
  * `atomic[64]_cmpxchg`

  The motivation was to generate globally-unique cookies in eBPF programs, but
  these atomic operations are likely to prove useful to a number of other
  applications.
  (Brendan Jackman,
  [link](https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/20210114181751.768687-1-jackmanb@google.com/t/#u))

> * Support for using kernel module global variables (`__ksym` externs) in eBPF

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Support for kernel module global variables (`__ksym` externs) in eBPF
```

  can set and those that `bpf_getsockopt()` could retrieve. The concerned
  options are:
  * `SO_MARK`
  * `SO_PRIORITY`
  * `SO_BINDTOIFINDEX` (also new for `bpf_setsockopt()`)

  (Daniel Borkmann,
  [link](https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/cba44439b801e5ddc1170e5be787f4dc93a2d7f9.1610406333.git.daniel@iogearbox.net/t/#u))

* Improve out-of-tree cross-building for eBPF selftests. Although this adds no
  new feature, it feels interesting to report because it should enable wider
  automated testing on ARM architectures. Selftests are, of course, an
  essential part of the eBPF ecosystem.
  (Jean-Philippe Brucker,
  [link](https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/20210113163319.1516382-1-jean-philippe@linaro.org/t/#u))

## Did You Know?: eBPF Virtual Filesystem

eBPF objects, such as a program or a map, reside in kernel memory until they
are no longer needed. Internally, the kernel uses reference counters to keep
track of the number of “handles” pointing to such objects. When the number of
references comes down to zero, the program or the map is destroyed. The
references to a program would typically be a hook where the user has attached

> the program (such as a tc filter or a kernel probe), or file descriptors to the
> program that were returned from the kernel when loading the program with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the program (such as a tc filter or a kernel probe), or file descriptors that
were returned from the kernel when loading the program with the
```

`bpf()` system call. Similarly, references to an eBPF map can be held by eBPF
programs using the map or by a user program that retrieved a file descriptor.

> This means that if a process loaded an eBPF program but has not attached it,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, if a process loaded an eBPF program without attaching it,
```

the program will be destroyed when the process exits and its file descriptors
are closed. There are ways to share file descriptors between processes, but to
make it easier to reference eBPF objects between user applications, or simply
to make them persistent at a time when they have no reference in the kernel
(such as a detached program or an unused map), another mechanism has been
created: the eBPF virtual filesystem.

The eBPF virtual (or _pseudo_) filesystem, often called bpffs, is traditionally
mounted at `/sys/fs/bpf`, but any alternative mount point can work. It is
possible to pin objects to this virtual filesystem, which is rendered as file
paths. Calling the `bpf()` system call with its `BPF_OBJ_PIN` subcommand pins
an object. Then, using the `BPF_OBJ_GET` subcommand on a bpffs path retrieves a
file descriptor to this pinned object. Removing a pinned path simply involves a
call to `unlink()`, just like for regular paths. Pinned paths (and the eBPF
objects they reference) are not persistent after reboot.

Note that the use of periods (`.`) in pinned paths is restricted. The glyph has
long been unused, but a recent feature introduced it to mark paths to specific

> eBPF iterators than the system can preload, `maps.debug` and `progs.debug` (but

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
eBPF iterators which the system can preload, such as `maps.debug` and `progs.debug` (but
```
Although, it may be best to just remove that:
```suggestion
eBPF iterators, such as `maps.debug` and `progs.debug` (but
```

Author: I don't think there are cases other than `maps.debug` and `progs.debug` at the moment, and I also don't think you can have a period in path names for regular iterators. I don't know if you can load maps.debug/progs.debug after boot, though.

I'll definitely fix the `than`, I probably thought `that`.

Reviewer 2: With `that`, you're saying that **only** iterators the system can preload are allowed to contain a dot in their corresponding filename. Is that what you're trying to say?

Author: Sorry, I missed that answer - Yes, I think that only maps.debug and progs.debug can have periods, and both can be preloaded (I don't know if they can be used without preloading). I don't believe there is any other iterator, and in particular any one that could not be preloaded, that can take a period in its pinned path at this time.

program uses the map yet, the only reference created is a file descriptor,
which is closed when bpftool exits. To avoid losing the map at this stage,
bpftool takes a path name and will use it to pin the map.

```
# bpftool map create /sys/fs/bpf/🍯 type array key 4 value 32 entries 8 name honeypot
# bpftool --bpffs map show pinned /sys/fs/bpf/🍯
42: array  name foo  flags 0x0
        key 4B  value 32B  max_entries 8  memlock 4096B
        pinned /sys/fs/bpf/🍯
```

We can then reuse this map when loading a program:

```
# bpftool prog load bee.o /sys/fs/bpf/🐝 map name honeypot pinned /sys/fs/bpf/🍯
```

Of course, you do not _have to_ use emojis. More information on the virtual
eBPF filesystem is available (although somewhat scattered) in the
[_BPF and XDP Reference Guide_](https://docs.cilium.io/en/latest/bpf/#object-pinning).
A post called [_Lifetime of BPF objects_](https://facebookmicrosites.github.io/bpf/blog/2018/08/31/object-lifetime.html),
from Alexei Starovoitov, is an excellent resource to learn more about how eBPF
objects are managed in the kernel. More information on bpftool usage is
available from [the dedicated man pages](https://www.mankier.com/8/bpftool).

> Note that there are few other eBPF objects (BTF, links, iterators) and that
> some of them are not handled exactly the same. There are also other ways, not
> mentioned here, to reference programs and maps, such as references in program
> array maps or maps of maps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that not all eBPF objects are handled in the same manner
(e.g., BTF, links, iterators). There are also other ways to reference
programs and maps, such as references in program array maps
or maps of maps.
```

Author: I meant to write `there are _a_ few other eBPF objects` -_-. I'll fix and take some of your changes on this paragraph.
